THE EGYPTIAN GAZETTE
MONDAY, JANUARY 9, 1905.
TO-DAY’S TELEGRAMS.
PORT ARTHUR
THE MIKADO’S THANKS.
STOESSEL PRAISES THE JAPS
Tokio, January 7.
The Emperor in a rescript thanks General Nogi, the Third Army and Admiral Togo and his fleet for the capture of Port Arthur. (R.)
Port Arthur, January 7.
In the course of a conference between Generals Nogi and Stoessel, the latter praised accuracy of the Japanese artillery. He also offered to General Nogi his charger, which Nogi accepted on behalf of the army saying they would always treat it with the greatest kindness out of respect for the brave General.
(Reuter.,
Port Arthur, January 8.
The transfer of the prisoners here is completed.
Fifty per cent of the Russian officers have given their parole. The remainder, including Generals Fock and Smyrnoff, prefer to be imprisoned in Japan.	(Reuter.)
LIAO-TUNG blockade raised.
Tokio, January 7.
The blockade at Liao-tung has been raised but only Japanese vessels are allowed to enter Port Arthur at present	(Reuter.,
Tokio, January. 7.
Admiral Togo has proclaimed the raising of the blockade from the coasts of Liao-tung as from to-day.
QUELPART.
FORTIFIED BY JAPANESE
Seoul, January 7.
The Korean Government has informed the Diplomats that the Japanese have landed and are fortifying Quelpart	(Reuter.,
THE BALTIC FLEET.
SHIPS BOUND FOR PORT SAID.
Suda Bay, January 8.
Admiral Botrovosky’s squadron has left. Its destination is Port Said.	(Reuter.)
London, January 8.
Coal contracts are being signed on the Continent in order to supply the third Baltic squadron.	(Reuter.)
ADMIRAL RODJESTVENSKY’S RECALL.
St. PetersbuRG January 7. At yesterday's council at the Palace, the
question of Admiral Rodjestvensky’s recall was discussed but no decision was reached.
(Reuter.)
JERUSALEM.
SANGUINARY RELIGIOUS DISPUTE
Jerusalem, January 8.
A sanguinary dispute occurred here between the Latin and Greek clergy whilst the latter were performing the Christmas midnight mass. The Patriarch was officiating at Bethlehem. The Latins were apparently the aggressors, for when the Greek ecclesiastics in vestments were issuing from the northern entrance of the Giotto of the Nativity, the Franciscan monks barred their way and a collision ensued, with the result that one Franciscan was seriously wounded and the Patriarch’s janissary slightly so. The Governor of Jerusalem went to the Grotto. Notwithstanding their exclusive ownership of the eastern entrance, the Greeks were ultimately allowed to pass through the northern door, hence the jealousy.	(Reuter.)
TRADE OF UNITED KINGDOM.
London, January 7.
The imports during the year ending the 31st December have increased by £8,761,835 and the exports by £10,017,789.	(Reuter.)
STALYBRIDGE ELECTION.
London, January 8.
Mr. Cbeetham, liberal and Free-trader, 4,029 votes. Mr. Travisclegg, Conservative, polled 8,078	
CONDITION OF RUSSIA,
BRUTAL EXCESSES OF POLICE.
Moscow, January 7.
Owing to the brutality used in suppressing the recent demonstration hero, the Municipality has suspended payment of the gendarmery until the responsible persons are punished.
(Reuter.
St. Petersburg, January 7.
The Editors of a large number of Russian newspapers have forwarded to the organs of the revolutionary movement published on the Continent a signed account of the brutal excesses of the St Petersburg police in supressing the student demonstrations. The signatories declare that these events are calculated to completely destroy the illusion*as regards the possibility of obtaining, under the existing regime, the most elementary guarantees for personal safety.	(Reuter.)
Sr. Petersburg, January 8.
A monster banquet is being arranged here in order to protest against the bureaucracy.
(Reuter.)
THE TSAR’S AUTHORITY.
HOLY SYNOD’S PROTEST.
St. petersburg, January 7.
M. Pobienoszeff, Procurator of the Holy Synod, has sent an address to the Tsar protesting against the insensate machinations of certain nobles to induce His Majesty to weaken his authority. He says that the Tsar possesses every right, except the right to break his oath, to preserve intact the autocracy and the Orthodox Faith.	(Reuter.)
TROUBLE IN MOROCCO.
ENCOUNTER WITH THE PRETENDER.
Tangier, January 7.
A fight has taken place 30 kilometres from Ujda between the troops of the Pretender and the Moorish forces. The Pretender was beaten but retired to a selected spot where reinforcements awaited him. The Imperial troops whilst pursuing the enemy, fell into ambuscade where they were completely routed, losing 400 killed and wounded.	(Reuter.)
M. SYVETON’S SUCCESSOR. ADMIRAL BIENAIME ELECTED.
Paris, January 8.
Admiral Bienaimé has been elected deputy in place of M. Syveton.	(Reuter.)
EGYPTIANS IN PARIS.
PETE ACCESSION DAY,
Paris, January The Egyptians living in Paris and the friends of Egypt assembled under the presidency of Zaki Bey to fête the Khedive’s accession day. They sent their good wishes to the Khedive.	(Havas.)
LEGAL NOTES.
ACTION AGAINST? THE BOURSE
Before the Commercial Chamber of the Mixed Tribunals of Alexandria, the case of Bustros v. Société da la Bourse d’Alexandrie and all the members of the Association des Courtiers de Commerce, came on for hearing. This case is of great interest to the community as it involves the locus standi of the Association, and may have important consequences. We will report it fully. The petitioners are represented by Maitres Le Moine and Carton de Wiart, the Société de la Bourse by Maitres Lebsohn and Palagi, the 74 members of the Association by Maitres X. Socolis and Colucci. The pleadings will probably not terminate before this evening.
THE BOULANGERIE MECANIQUE.
Owing to the length of this case, another interesting suit has been postponed to the 20th February. It is the action brought by the liquidation of the Boulangerie Mécqnique against Mr. Valere Mabille, the Franco-Belgian financier, as well known by his extraordinary likeness to King Leopold of Belgium as by his business capacities, and also against Mr. P. Remy, the Belgian Consul in Alexandria, Me. Manusardi is for the liquidators, Me. Carton de Wiart for Mr. Valero Mabille, Me. Colucci for Count Remy.
CAIRO GRANDO HAMMAM
LOCAL AND GENERAL
THE S.Y. “Argonaut” arrived at Alexandria yesterday.
Bubonio Plague. — Two fresh cases and a, death have occurred in Toukh district and one case at Suez, since Saturday.
The Reunion des Familles 8ociety gave a most successful dance at Monferrato’s Hall on Saturday evening, which was attended by a large gathering of members.
NEw Doctors—The Ministry of the Interior, on the proposition of the Sanitary Administration, has authorised Drs. Oscar Stross, Garabet Arakel and Constantin Schopoulos to practice as physicians in Egypt
The North German Lloyd’s S.S. “Schles-wig” is due at Alexandria this evening with about 160 cabin passengers. The S.S. "Hohen-zolleru" is. making her maiden voyage on this route and is due here on Monday next This is the commencement of the weekly service of this compauy between Alexandria and Europe.
Coal Imports.—The imports of coal into Alexandria from the 1st January to the 31st ulto. amounted to 1,057,441 tons, as compared with 1,007,970 tons during the year 1903. Of this total, Newcastle sent 240,694 tons, the Welsh coaling districts 601,755 tons, the Scotch districts 108,310 tons, and Yorkshire 58,875 tons, while the Imports of other qualities came to 48,307.
H.M. Transport “Soudan” (Capt S. de B. Lockyer, R.N.R.) arrived at Port Said at noon on Saturday from Bombay. She had on board the 1st Battalion Royal Fusiliers and details, making a total of 1,336 of all ranks. The Royal Fusiliers, numbering 440, are to be stationed on arrival in England at Parkhurst Barracks, isle of Wight The officer commanding is Major and Brevet-Colonel C. V. F. Townshend, C.B., D.S.O. The “Soudan” left for Southampton at midnight.
PERSONAL AND SOCIAL
The Marquis di Rudini, a former Prime Minister for many years of Italy, arrived at Alexandria by the Italian boat and is staying at the Savoy,Cairo. The Marquis looks exceep-ingly  well and will go up as far as Khartoum. On his return he will stay for a long time in Cairo. The Marquis Salvago-Raggi met the statesman at the station and accompanied him to the Savoy,
where an apartment had been reserved for him. The Marquis will afterwards proceed to Ery-threa in order to decide what measures should be taken fur the development oi Italy's Red Sea colony.
H. H. the Khedive received the newly-appointed judges in audience to-day at Abdeen Palace.
Lt-Col. Sir Curzon Wyllie and Lady Wyllie have arrived at Helouan and are staying at the Grand Hotel
Lady Mariot, Mr. and Mrs. G. H. Blunt, and Capt Blunt are also residing at the Grand Hotel Helouan.
Col. and Mrs. Huddleston and Miss Etches have lately arrived at the Grand Hotel Helouan, where they intend to stay for some weeks.
We are authorised to state that there is absolutely no truth in the report that Chitty Bey is to be transferred from Alexandria to Cairo.
Canon Holland, of Canterbury, preached in the morning and evening yesterday at All Saints’ Church, Cairo.
OBITUARY.
F. W. BLUM.
Mr. F. W. Blum, who has been working for about three years in Alexandria as Church of England missionary to the Jews, died last night at the Deaconesses’ Hospital, Alexandria. Mr. Blum had been unwell for some time and recently underwent a successful operation; but unfortunately an attack of dysentery intervened and he succumbed after a few days’ illness. He leaves a wile who is very delicate and two young children. Mrs. Blum is in Liepsic with the children. Mr. Blam, who was a German Jew (Ashkenazi), was born in Jerusalem in 1855 and was baptized by Pastor Faltin of Kishineff. Since 1902 be had worked in Alexandria as the missionary of the London Society for Promoting Christianity amongst the Jews.
. The funeral will leave the Hospital at 11 a.m. to-morrow.
SPORT AND PLAY.
KHEDIVIAL SPORTING CLUB.
SKYE MEETING.
The Hurdle Race not having filled, the following will be substituted :
The 8kye Open Handicap, value L.E. 20 2nd horse to receive LE. 3 if 4 or more start, 3rd LE. 2 if 6 or more start, out of the stakes. For Arabs. Distance 1 mile 1 furlong. Entrance P.T. 50. Entries close Wednesday, 11st inst, at 8 p.m.
FREE STATE LANDS.
AUTHORISED- STATEMENT.
From time to time rumours are current that negotiations are in progress for the sale by Government of all the free State lands. Doubtless there are many financiers who would very gladly take up such a scheme, and proposal with this object have been made. We are authorized to state, however, on the best authority, that the Government has no intention of handing over en bloc these lands to any syndicate or group.
There are many applications for waste lands in the hands of the Government, and an official intimation was issued some time ago that these would not bo considered before April. The Ministries of Finance and Public Works are studying the whole question, and meantime rumours of large concessions may be treated as mere canards.
ARRIVAL OF PERSIAN AMBASSADOR.
H. H. Prince Aria el-Daula, Persian Ambassador at Constantinople, arrived at Alexandria this morning by the Austrian Lloyd S.S. Habsburg. His Highness was received on his arrival by H. E. Mirza Ali Askar Khan, Persian Diplomatic Agent and Consul-General in Egypt, Mihran Khan Kalfaian, Persian Consul at Alexandria, Mohamed Bey Assem, Sub-Governor of Alexandria, and representatives of the local authorities, besides a number of local notabilities.
A guard of honor was furnished by a detachment of Customs Guards, and on disembarking  his Highness was escorted by a detachment of mounted police to the residence of the Persian Consul, where he partook of breakfast Afterwards the Prince proceeded to the Carlton Hotel, Bulkelev, where, as on his previous visit, he will remain during his stay here.
The Persian Consulate at Alexandria denies the report that Prince Arfa el Dawla has been entrusted with a special mission to the Khedive on behalf of the Shah. His Highness has just returned on the completion of his mission
the Tsar.
THE VOYAGE OF THE “MONGOLIA".
The P. & 0. SB. “Mongolia" reached Port Said on Thursday afternoon, and after taking in 1,200 mail bags and 800 tons of ooal, left for Suez, from which port she sailed on Friday evening. The voyage from England was full of disagreeable incidents. She was detained for two days at Tilbury in the blackest of fogs, which rendered it impossible for the passengers to go ashore, but when the fog lifted for a few hours on Christmas Day she lost no time in starting.
The overland passengers reached Marseilles on Friday, December 30, to be told that the “Mongolia” had only just left Gibraltar, and they must stay at a hotel at the company's expense. When the steamer arrived on the following day, so strong a mistral was blowing from the N. N. W. that she could neither get into dock, nor could a tug proceed to her. She therefore took up a position of safety under the hills to the west of the town, where she was shortly joined by a dozen other steamers which were unable to make the port.
On New Year’s Day the French agent of the P. and 0. Company made some in adequate arrangements by which some 200 passengers succeeded in boarding the steamer with their luggage. The sea was then less rough because the wind had dropped somewhat bat it was so cold that no one was surprised to see snow falling. The bad weather and numerous snow storms lasted until the Straits of Messina had been passed, after which the weather became fairly good, with the exception of occasional showers of hail and rain. The ship travelled well in spite of the rough sea, and averaged from 16 .to 17 miles an hour every day.
Nearly 100 passengers were booked for Cairo, including Sir Curzon and Lady Wyllie, Captain the Hon. G. and Mrs. Baring, Mr. Forestier Walker and Dr. Sand with. Among those proceeding to the Far East was Major-General “Keggy" Slade, welll known to many old Egyptians as a staff officer in the campaigns in this country from 1882 to 1885. He is now Inspector General of Artillery, and has received orders to/obtain permission from the Japanese
ZIZINIA THEATRE.
“ SIBERIA.”
Owing to pressure on our space, we are oompelled to hold over our report of the production of Siberia until tomorrow.
ABBAS HELMY THEATRE.
Those in want of a hearty laugh could not do better than pay a visit to the Abbas Helmy Theatre, where mirth is combined with first-rate music. The Soarez operetta company is meeting with a success, which was richly deserved. Full houses are the order of the day, rather night, and the auditorium generally resounds with laughter from beginning to end of the performance. Les P'tetites Brebis on Saturday and La Mascotte last night were huge successes.	
This may he readily understood when we say that the present company is the best comic opera combination that has ever visited Egypt The singers are faultless, the music is equally excellent, and the costumes and staging are admirable. Signa, Soarez and Sig. Gravina are alone worth going to the theatre to hear. Capitan Teresa  tonight should fill the house again. Mr. Monferrato has distinctly scored
this time.

THE MASS MEETING.
SUCCESSFUL SOLUTION.
We are happy to state that the overtures which the Board of the Ramleh Railway has made with a view to meeting the wishes of their clients were adopted by: the Ramlehites at the mass meeting on Saturday evening, and that harmonious relations have at last'been re-established between the. railway directors, and the public.
The mass meeting on Saturday evening was, a great success. In spite of the inclemency of the weather and of the ravages of influenza there was a large and enthusiastic gathering of Ramlehites, and the venerable pile, known to fame as the Theatre of Bacos, was crowded from top to bottom with an audience who bad mustered from every quarter of the Ramleh district. Soon after 9 o'clock the president of the Ramleh delegates, Mr. Benjamin Arbib, mounted the rostrum amidst the acclamations of the assembled Ramlehites, and with a weighty and dignified eloquence pronounced the following oration in Italian:---
THE CHAIRMAN’S SPEECH.
Signori !
Vi preghiamo, prima di tutto, di ascoltarci con calma' e di non interrompere gli oratort finché non avranno finite di parlare; d’altronde quetto cheio diro in Italiano sara ripetuto in -
reso un conto esatto di quanto i0 vi sotto-mettero e la parola sari accordata a tutti quelli che la domanderanno.   	
Dall’ultima seduta a questa, abbiamo fatto il nostro possibile per calmare gli spiriti, fecendo passi al governatorato ed all'amministrazione della compagnia per cio che riguarda i disordini causati della presenza della polizia alla stazione, e siamo riusciti a allontanare la forza anche per il bene dei poveri agenti che morivano di fame. D’altronde la delegazione ha sempre pensato che le differenze che sorgono tra il pubblieo ed una pubblica amministrazione devono essere solo risolti civilmente e non all’ombra della polizia, che e spauracchio per i malfattori e non per gente onesta quale noi siamo.
Signori ! noi siamo riusciti a fare mantenere dalla compagnia i prezzi di abbonamento di prima, solo quest’ultima ha domandato delle limitazione.
L’amministrazione fara degli abbonamenti trimestrali, - semistrali ed annuali e cio nel modo seguente:
Per un trimestre dara tre carnets che saranno valevoli per i tre mesi e alia scadenzadi questi i biglietti rimaneuti non avranno piu alcun valore. Ogni carnet avra 120 biglietti, cioe 4 ogni giorno. Per un semestre dara 6 carnett } nella stessa proporzione del trimestre. Per un anno dark 12 carnets nella proporzione come sopra. E bene inteso che questi carnett sono personali esclusivamente.
Per mezzo della nostra energica abnegazione i carnets oggi essistenti resteranno allo stesso | prezzo di P.T.. 77 per ogni carnets di 50 , biglietti di prima classe e di P.T. 37 1/2 per , ogni carnet di 50 biglietti di terza classe. I : mezzi biglietti saranno calcolati nella medesima proporzione.
 Noi abbiamo insistito presso S.E. Bogos Pacha Nubar perche alla limitazione dei viaggi sia dato un compenso per i viaggi intermediari ed a tale uopo domandammo 10 biglietti ogni mese al di fuori di quelli compresi in ogni carnet
Insistemmo pure fare aumentare di 4 bigliet-ti quei carnets che dovranno servire per i mesi di 81 giorni e cio per eliminare qualsiase lesione d’interesse a torto degli abbonati Per queste nostre domande e stato risposto al di la j delle nostre aspettative.
 S.E Baghos Nubar Pacha ha aqcordato 400 biglietti per ogni trimestre cio epiu di 138 biglietti ogni mese invece di 120 che essi ci accordavano. Per tale operato vi propongo di applaudire al consiglio di Amministrazione della Ramleh ed a S.E. Boghos Nubar Pacha.
Come vedete in poche ore noi siamo riusciti ad ottenere una seluzione pratica, efficace ed accettabile per tutti.
Noi speriamo che voi tutti siete contenti del nostro opera to onde se voi ci approvate alzate le mani. Primo di  lasciare la parola agli altri oratori permettetemi di ringrasiare a nome di tutti i Ramlisti laCommissione dei locatari di Alessandria alla cui testa come Presidente onorario sta il filantropico Signor Alderson che sempre primo dove c'e da siutare chi ha di bisogno. I nostri ringraziamenti vadano pure al Presidente effetivo di questa Commissione Signor Cavaliere Ronci ed a tutti i suoi colleghi e specialmente al Signor Quintavalle ed al Signor Menasse.
Permettetemi che a nome di voi tutti ringrazi la stampa che si e mostrata simpatica per i
nostri reclami.	________
Ringrazio voi tutti abitanti di Ramleh che in questa occasione vi siete mostrati solidali, energici, nomini seri e non montoni quail ci crede-van’o Siamo sempre vigili difensori dei nostri .interessi, siamo sempre uniti e cosi saremo
siamo sempre uniti e cosi saremo sempre forti .per la garanzia nostri diritti. 
Ringraziamo il Signor Coleyanni proprietario di questo theatro che ha facilitato le nostre riuniotti e ’ vi -preghiamo .di facilitare il suo commereio essendo suoi fedeli clienti.
Perthettetemi in ultimo che a nome di voi tutti e mio, renda omaggio all’opara indifessa del nostro Comitato.
La soluzione che io vi ho annunziato non intralcia in alcun medo i lavori del Comitato,
obe seranno continuati per la garanzia e la salvagnardis dei nostri interessi, Io vi propongo un voto di fiducis e di plauso al nostro Comitato

THE OPPOSITION,
The president’s speech was followed by a dis-course from M. Zenie, another member of the Ramleh Delegation who spoke in French and Arabic. He dwelt on the great debt whioh all the Ramlehites were under to the president, owing to whose energy, pertinacity, and diplo macy the population of Ramleh had been freed from the yoke which the, directors of -the Railway Company had vainly endeavoured to place on them. While this speech was proceed-ing it became clear that there was a strong opposition to the amicable settlement as proposed by the president.  But by the explanation which Mr. Quintavalle addressed to the dissen-tients, it was manifest that this opposition was due to failure to grasp the tenour of the president’s speech. One member of the audience reproached the meeting with the charge that all they really wanted was to travel free.  This opprobrious imputation was severely resented by the Ramlehites. Another incident occurred when two engineers got up and addressed the meeting on the subject of a motor service. When these gentlemen began to speak, the delegatee withdrew, as the subject under dis-cussion was not on the order of the day moreover the president had- refused to assent to these gentlemen, Messrs. Arcondoulis and Movesse, making any 'remarks. The delegates and the Ramlehites then marched to the residences of Mr. Alderson and. M. Jacot de Combes, whom they serenaded.
' The delegates have been entrusted with a mandate to enter into negotiations with the company in order to settle the position of the population of Ibrahimieh.
THE BOARD'S STATEMENT.
We have received the following notice from the Alexandria and'Ramleh Railway Com-pany :---
“The Board of Directors, taking into consideration that the suppression of season tickets or “abonnements,” was not  decided on with the object of increasing the tariff but only with the intention of putting an cud to abuses, which had taken such proportions as to be very prejudicial to the company’s interests, and being desirous of conciliating, as much as possible, these interests with those of the inhabitants of Ramleh, the Board has decided to replace the old season tickets by books of tickets, which will be offered for sale, on and after the 1st April next.
" These books will be strictly personal, the owner’s photograph will be attached to them, and they will contain a number of tickets calculated on the basis of 400 journeys per quarter, or three months.
"There will be separate books for three, six, and twelve months, containing 400; 800, or 1,600 tickets, at the prices of £3, £5 1/2 and £ 9 1/2 respectively, for the first class and £1.750, £3.250, and £5.700 for the second class.
 “These books oft tickets will be valid for three months, from the 1st January, 1st April, 1st July, and 1st October of each year.
 "The tickets contained in these books will only be valid when they are detached by the company's agents and used during the quarter, half-year, or year to which they refer.
'Provisionally, and up to the time of the employment of the above mentioned personal books of tickets, the former season-ticket holders, whose tickets have now expired, will be able to receive for the first quarter, in ordinary ticket books, a number of tickets calculated on the basis of 400 tickets per quarter, at the price of £3 per 400 first-class and £1.750 second-class tickets, from the day following the expiration of each season ticket, until the 31st March next.
“Independently of the new books of personal tickets, the discount allowed from the first January last, on ordinary books of 50 tickets, will be maintained, their price remains fixed at P.T. 75 for 1st class and P.T. 35 1/2 for 2nd class.
“By order of the Board of Directors.
"(Signed): Jacot des combes."
MINISTRY OF JUSTICE.
Judge Kershaw and Judge Vanx have been appointed as Inspectors of the Committee of 8urveillance of the Ministry of Justice.
Judge Keshaw will be specially entrusted with the inspection of the Native Parquets.
IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT.
The Minister of Public Works has sanctioned the following appointments :---
Mr. T. H. Clowes, Inspector of the 4th Circle, to be promoted Inspector-General of Irrigation in Upper Egypt in succession to Mr. A. L Webb, Under-Secretary of State for Irrigation.
Mr. M. G. B. Ireland, Inspector of the Zifteh Circle, has been appointed Inspector of the 4th
Circle.	
Mr. H. G. Finlaison, Director of the Delta Barrage, has been appointed Inspector of the Zifteh Circle.
Mr. Webb has been appointed President of the Special Council of Discipline at the P.WD. in succession to Sir W. Garstin.
SAVOY SMALL DANCE.
There was a most successful dance at the Savoy on Saturday evening, the usual habitués of the Savoy, as well as most of the officers of | the Egyptian Army and the Army of Occupa-tion, being present. Among others we noticed : Col. J. K. Watson, Coles Pasha and the Misses Coles, Mr., Mrs. and Miss Royle, Baron von Oppenheim, Lady Clark, etc.
The restaurant was full up as usual on Saturday evenings,both for dinner and supper. Mr. Charles Royle had a party of 5 and Mr., Mrs, and Miss Bell a party of 8, including Mr, Higgins, Mr. James, Mr, and Mrs., Crawley